John Maeda is a former Professor of the MIT Media Lab (1996-2008)--during which time he advised Reas and Fry among others--and the former President of the Rhode Island School of Design (2008-2013). During his time at the Rhode Island School of Design, Maeda advocated for STEM education to become STEAM with the Art and Design in conjunction with Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math. Maeda currently work in a partnership with Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a Sillicon Valley venture capital firm, advising on technology startups.

Maeda in his "When a Good Idea Works" (2009) published in the *MIT Technology Review* connects the dots of how the MIT Media Lab brought Processing to life:
>The starting point for their project was something that I can take credit for: the Design by Numbers (DBN) framework for teaching programming to artists and designers. I originally wrote DBN in the 1990s, but I couldn’t get it to yield production-­quality work. My graduate student Tom White made it into something that was much more functional. And then Fry and Reas took a crack at it. DBN limited users to drawing in a 100-by-100-pixel space, and only in grayscale–faithful to my Bauhaus-style approach to computational expression. But Fry and Reas figured that people needed color. They needed canvases larger than 100 by 100. They realized that this wasn’t in line with my interests, so they went off and made their own system that gave users no restrictions at all. The starting point for their project was something that I can take credit for: the Design by Numbers (DBN) framework for teaching programming to artists and designers. I originally wrote DBN in the 1990s, but I couldn’t get it to yield production-­quality work. My graduate student Tom White made it into something that was much more functional. And then Fry and Reas took a crack at it. DBN limited users to drawing in a 100-by-100-pixel space, and only in grayscale–faithful to my Bauhaus-style approach to computational expression. But Fry and Reas figured that people needed color. They needed canvases larger than 100 by 100. They realized that this wasn’t in line with my interests, so they went off and made their own system that gave users no restrictions at all.



